# Andrea Blasco, Karim Lakhani, Kevin Boudreau, Michael Menietti, Christoph Riedl, (2013) “Find a partner in the crowd”
>> We ran a large team-formation and matching experiment in which participants formed virtual teams of two, working together over the course of one month to develop new algorithms to locate captions and text of images of US patent drawing pages. We test whether the introduction of a centralized matching protocol based on elicited preferences can improve matching outcomes.

# Andrea Blasco, Paolo Pin, Francesco Sobbrio, (2015) “Paying positive to go negative; Advertisers' competition and media reports”
>> This paper analyzes a two-sided market for news where advertisers may pay a media outlet to conceal negative information about the quality of their own product (paying positive to avoid negative) and/or to disclose negative information about the quality of their competitors' products (paying positive to go negative). We show that competition in the products market does not necessarily translate into competition over the media outlet's news reports. In particular, whether or not advertisers end up having negative consequences on the accuracy of the media outlet's news reports ultimately depends on the extent of the correlation in the quality of the advertisers' products: the lower this correlation, the higher is the accuracy of the media outlet's reports. The main results are robust to the presence of multiple media outlets and to asymmetries between the advertisers. Finally, our findings provides theoretical guidance for media regulators and for the empirical literature examining the link between advertising and news contents.

# Andrea Blasco, Francesco Sobbrio, (2012) ”Competition and commercial media bias” Telecommunications Policy, Volume 36, Issue 5, June 2012, Pages 434-447
>> This paper reviews the empirical evidence on commercial media bias (i.e., advertisers influence over media accuracy) and then introduces a simple model to summarize the main elements of the theoretical literature. The analysis provides three main policy insights for media regulators: i) Media regulators should target their monitoring efforts towards news contents upon which advertisers are likely to share similar preferences; ii) In advertising industries characterized by high correlation in products' qualities, an increase in the degree of competition may translate into a lower accuracy of news reports; iii) A sufficiently high degree of competition in the market for news drives out commercial media bias.

# Andrea Blasco, (2012) “Disclosure and Collaboration in Dynamic R&D races”
>> Recent models of multi-stage R&D have shown that a system of weak intellectual property rights may lead to faster innovation by inducing firms to share intermediate technological knowledge. However, I argue that the positive effect of weak intellectual property regimes on the sharing of intermediate technological knowledge vanishes when technology is complex, as is likely to be the case in many high-tech industries. Under this condition, technologically complex discoveries that are disclosed by a technological leader can be ignored by the follower, who does so when it can free ride off the research of the rival, since ignoring the disclosure encourages more research by the leader.

# Andrea Blasco, Paolo Pin, (2010) “Simulations on Correlated Behavior and Social Learning” Progress in Artificial Economics, 2010, Pages 89--100, Springer
>> We consider a population of agents that can choose between two risky technologies: an old one for which they know the expected outcome, and a new one for which they have only a prior. We confront different environments. In the benchmark case agents are isolated and can perform costly experiments to infer the quality of the new technology. In the other cases agents are settled in a network and can observe the outcomes of neighbors. We analyze long–run efficiency of the models. We observe that in expectations the quality of the new technology may be overestimated when there is a network spread of information. This is due to a herding behavior that is efficient only when the new technology is really better than the old one. We also observe that between different network structures there is not a clear dominance.